V1.0.0 RC (#182)
OWASP/maswe: weaknesses/MASVS-CRYPTO/MASWE-0012.md

Author: Dio: DONE

---
title: Improper Hashing
id: MASWE-0012
alias: improper-hashing
requirement: "The app properly hashes sensitive data."
platform: [android, ios]
profiles: [L1, L2]
threat: MAS-THREAT-0012
attacks: [MAS-ATTACK-0028]
mappings:
  masvs-v1: [MSTG-CRYPTO-4]
  masvs-v2: [MASVS-CRYPTO-1]
  cwe: [328]
  android-core-app-quality: [Cryptographic_Algorithms]
  maswe-beta: [MASWE-0021]
refs:
- https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/cryptography#deprecated-functionality
- https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-131Ar2.pdf
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collision_attack
- https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/ir/8547/ipd
status: new
---

## Overview

This weakness occurs when a broken or unsuitable hash function is used in a security-sensitive context, such as integrity checks, digital signatures, or certificate fingerprints.

> Broken algorithms such as MD5 and SHA-1 are vulnerable to collision attacks and must not be used where collision or second-preimage resistance is required. Using an otherwise sound hash function for the wrong job is equally problematic: passwords and passphrases require a dedicated password-based key derivation function rather than a plain hash (see @MASWE-0008), and non-cryptographic checksums provide no security at all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Broken algorithms such as MD5 and SHA-1 have practical collision attacks, and NIST has deprecated both for all security purposes; they must not be used in any security-sensitive context. Using an otherwise sound hash function for the wrong job is equally problematic: passwords and passphrases require a dedicated password-based key derivation function rather than a plain hash (see @MASWE-0008), and non-cryptographic checksums provide no security at all.
```
